areas
from recall site, runto an area, its like a mini dungeon with random rooms chests enemies and loot, some unique rooms etc

dungeon area 1

1. entrance
2. corridor
3. big hall
4. throne room

encounters

roll 1d4 for amount of encounters in room

1. 1d4 kobolds, feasting on a dead human. the human corpse contains a gem
2. 1d3 human hostages, they will thank you if you "cut them lose" or "cut rope" etc, and give rescuer 4d20 gold
3. chest 50% to be a mimic, mimic drops nothing, chest contains 1d4 gems
4. 1d4 kobolds and 1d2 kobold shamans

once players get to room 4 they exit the dungeon and keep all their "loot" items, or if the dungeon has multiple levels, 
they progress to the next one





- how does loot work?

any item except for gold you obtain in a dungeon is loot
loot works the same as any item, except on a full party death in a dungeon, theres a 50% chance that loot dissapears 
from your inventory.

when you exit a dungeon, the loot tag is removed from the item, and the item becomes "stashed".

"stashed" items can be banked, or sold with the sell all command

items that are invisible cannot be interracted with but still count towards total weight of the character
items that are invisible and stashed cannot be sold, given away, or dropped








- ready, flee, break

ready - go to next room, all players need to vote
flee - you forfeit your loot, and return home
break - you vote to take a break, all players must vote, half max hp and half max mp gets restored, 
can only take 2 breaks per ENTIRE dungeon




- skills / spells

basic daamge spells bla bla
basic healing spells 
basic buffs / debuffs

- detect invis / hidden
you can either see invisible or hidden objects for x turns, if object / character
is both hidden and invisible, you can not see them at all unless you have both

- door ( might not add )
can only be cast inside dungeons, creates a temporary door your party can use to return to town
as party can vote "return" to teleport inside of the dungeon after selling loot and healing etc
can be cast once per dungeon 

- ressurect
if a character dies mid combat, ressurect them with half hp and mp

- identify 
identify objects, unidentified cannot be equiped

- unlocking stuff
knock
magically unlock a non magically sealed door, chest, etc

- pick lock 
pick a lock to a non magically sealed door chest etc

characters can use both these skills to unlock stuff, but if they fail the check they cant retry unlocking it ever again

- haste
hasten a character for 2 turns, they will be able to attack twice per turn, but the second attack is always automatically
a basic attack

- blink
a spell that makes the target dodge all attacks they are about to receive this turn

- hide
spend your turn hiding, characters that cant see hiding wont target you
any attack you use after hiding deals double damage, but then unhides you

- invis
same as above but for wizards, 

- safe word
target stops whatever action they were going to do

- darkness
the room becomes dark, everyone becomes hidden, if room is affected by light, return the room to regular

- light
if room is affected by darkness, remove this effect, otherwise everyone in room is blinded

- third eye
cannot become blinded, and blinded is removed

- decay
all healing starts to damage target instead

- disarm
target cannot physically attack this turn

- parry
this turn, all physical damage taken this turn is reflected back to the attackers and you take 0 physical damage
( in coding terms, targets that hit you would hit themselves instead )

- magic mirror
same as parry but for magical attacks

- word of flee
instantly teleport to a random room in the dungeon, roll new encounter
( in coding terms, this is like forcing next in the dungeon )

- wraith form
gain immunity to physical damage
but decrease resistance to all forms of magic for x turns

- assasinate
if a character is hidden or invisible, they can use assasinate on a target to deal massive damage and become unhidden

- burning hands
the next melee attack deals bonus fire damage

- elemental ward
place a ward that protects against one element of your chosing, this will half damage for both enemies and allies
from that element until it is dispelled or runs out

- dispel
dispel a random magical effect from the target, it may dispell both buffs and debuffs

- sleep
target will sleep for x turns, any damage taken in that time will wake the target

- vampiric touch
drain some hp for yourself from target

- wraith touch
drain some mp for yourself from target

- taunt
make your target, target you!
( this can come in handy if they are about to cast a buff )

- chrono sphere
next turn, only you may act

UTILITY
- scribe
for some gold cost, scribe a scroll

- enchant
enchant an equipable item, giving it better stats, items can only be enchanted once unless you cast dispell to remove
the enchantment, enchanting will be expensive, and the stat bonus minimal, aswell as there will be a chance to fail
item level will determine the stats gained, aswell as caster level will determine amount of stats and success rate

- reforge
same as above, items can be reforged whenever, reforge cannot fail, but this is more expensive and can only be done on items made of metal

- pick pocket
whenever you are in town, there is a chance to steal gold based on your level

- mend
objects with "broken" status get fixed, this costs gold

- ventriloquate
This allows the caster to make it appear that someone else is doing the speaking. 
It has no in-game use outside of roleplaying and surprising newbies. 


- spot traps ( idk if will add )
there may be traps in the dungeon, this skill helps you spot them in between rooms

- disarm traps ( idk if will add )
once a trap is spotted by anyone in your party, you can attempt to deactivate

- insight
gain insight into an enemy and reveal all their stats to the group after this turn







- eating
you can visit the tavern to eat a meal, it costs money but gives huge buffs valheim style for the next dungeon
( affects like bonus str dex int whatever )



combat
combat is turn based, whenever a combat encounter occurs, 
Enemies show their "intent", for example 
(
    --- turn 1 ---
Goblin shoots arrow at Sam!
)

the damage is always calculated last, meaning everyone can damage one another, and if unlucky, you might get to kill everything 
in the room just as it kills your whole group

now that players know what the enemies intents are, they can plan accordingly!

(
    --- turn 1 ---
Goblin shoots arrow at Sam!
Sam casts fireball at Goblin!
Mike casts heal on Sam!
Sarah strikes Goblin!

your input: throw javelin at goblin
)


combat follows a pattern


buffs 
debuffs
healing
attacks






